Add initial PR for Contributing & Coding Standard (#920)
community-scripts/ProxmoxVE: .github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/CONTRIBUTING.md

Reviewer: I would suggest putting the main CONTRIBUTING.md in the root of the repository. This folder is way too hidden.

Reviewer 2: Yes, i'm totaly on your side with this. The placement can be discussed and is not final i think.

Reviewer 3: I agree with this. Github has native support when the file is placed in root, see https://docs.github.com/en/communities/setting-up-your-project-for-healthy-contributions/setting-guidelines-for-repository-contributors

E.g. it is shown, when a new PR is opened to new contributors.

Reviewer 2: @andygrunwald as i read it, also /docs or /.github are allowed/used for this.

# Community Scripts Contribution Guide

## **Welcome to the communty-scripts Repository!** 

> 📜 These documents outlines the essential coding standards for all our scripts and JSON files. Adhering to these standards ensures that our codebase remains consistent, readable, and maintainable. By following these guidelines, we can improve collaboration, reduce errors, and enhance the overall quality of our project.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📜 These documents outline the essential coding standards for all our scripts and JSON files. Adhering to these standards ensures that our codebase remains consistent, readable, and maintainable. By following these guidelines, we can improve collaboration, reduce errors, and enhance the overall quality of our project.

```

### Why Coding Standards Matter

Coding standards are crucial for several reasons:

1. **Consistency**: Consistent code is easier to read, understand, and maintain. It helps new team members quickly get up to speed and reduces the learning curve.
2. **Readability**: Clear and well-structured code is easier to debug and extend. It allows developers to quickly identify and fix issues.
3. **Maintainability**: Code that follows a standard structure is easier to refactor and update. It ensures that changes can be made with minimal risk of introducing new bugs.

> 4. **Collaboration**: When everyone follows the same standards, it becomes easier to collaborate on code. It reduces friction and misunderstandings during code reviews and merges.

Reviewer 3: While I love the context of why this document is important, I would like to raise the question if a description on why Coding standards are usefule is really needed.

I think we can assume a basic knowledge of software engineering to people who aim to read this doc.

I think it is helpful to keep the barrier for contribution low. A crisp document that brings the message across helps here.

My suggestion: Removing the chapter "Why Coding Standards Matter"

Reviewer 2: Yeah seems resonable. I had a look around what other documents like this one look like and found in many places somethings like these.

### Scope of These Documents

> These documents covers the coding standards for the following types of files in our project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These documents cover the coding standards for the following types of files in our project:
```

> - **`APP-install.sh` Scripts**: These scripts are responsible for the installation of applications and are located in the `/install` directory.
> - **`APP.sh` Scripts**: These scripts handle the creation and updating of containers and are found in the `/ct` directory.
> - **JSON Files**: These files store structured data and are located in the `/json` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`install/$AppName-install.sh` Scripts**: These scripts are responsible for the installation of applications.
- **`ct/$AppName.sh` Scripts**: These scripts handle the creation and updating of containers.
- **`json/$AppName.json`**: These files store structured data and are used for the website.
```

Let's write these as variables so that anyone who has ever written a single line of bash immediately recognises that these are placeholders.

Each section provides detailed guidelines on various aspects of coding, including shebang usage, comments, variable naming, function naming, indentation, error handling, command substitution, quoting, script structure, and logging. Additionally, examples are provided to illustrate the application of these standards.

> By following the coding standards outlined in this document, we ensure that our scripts and JSON files are of high quality, making our project more robust and easier to manage. Please refer to this guide whenever you create or update scripts and JSON files to maintain a high standard of code quality across the project. 📚🔍

Reviewer 3: I think this sentence can be dropped.
It is in the similar context as the "why coding standards are useful".

Additionally, I don't know why I need to "please refer to this guide" when I am opening a PR. This doc are the guidelines to follow to create a PR. If a PR is not matching these guidelines, the feedback will be in this direction.
Not sure if adding a link to a PR to this doc helps. Rather than a checkbox in the PR template like "Followed and applied Coding standards" may be enough.

Why removing this paragraph?
It doesn't really add new information on what Coding standards itself. Following the rule of keeping it crisp and less is more.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, like above, on second tougth it seems a bit overengineered.

Let's work together to keep our codebase clean, efficient, and maintainable! 💪🚀

## Getting Started

Before contributing, please ensure that you have the following setup:

1. **Visual Studio Code** (recommended for script development)
2. **Recommended VS Code Extensions:**
   - [Shell Syntax](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bmalehorn.shell-syntax)
   - [ShellCheck](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=timonwong.shellcheck)

>    - [Shell Format](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=foxundermoon.shell-format)

Reviewer 3: I like the recommendation overall. However, i think many engineers have their opinionated IDE. Thats why I think we should not "phrase it as mandatory" (this is how I read it).

What I can think about: Having a section like:

```
## IDE setup

Depending on your IDE, here are some recommendations for IDE configurations supporting you in development.

### VSCode

<Recommended extensions here>

### vim

....
```

This way, it feels optional and other people can add other IDEs.
Furthermore, I suggest that this is an own document like `ide.md`.

Reviewer 2: There has been a proposal by @quantumryuu  for this already, have a look here:  https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/tree/new_script_testing/.github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/dev-scripts
I will start testing, experementing with this when the hollidays are over. 

I also would love to have something simillar to [this](https://community-scripts.github.io/ProxmoxVE/json-editor) for Appname.sh and AppName-install.sh

Reviewer 2: It is only a recommendation, as stated on line 35. I personaly use neovim mostly and adapted it so it fits. But i think that with one example as recommendet is more then enough.

Reviewer: Hahaha I had a similar comment written earlier today but decided against adding it. For a couple of reasons:
 1. It is nice to choose a single IDE in your contributor guide, that way you don't have to answer questions from people when they try something else (thus making it non-optional in the guide)
 2. Any seasoned (and thus stubborn) engineer will still try to use their own IDE anyways (looking at myself in the mirror), but they probably also know what they're doing
 3. Any code style guideline should be in place using CI pipelines and with clearly defined tools to be able to enforce that if people use other IDEs they can still contribute while conforming to the same standards

### Important Notes
- Use [AppName.sh](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/blob/contributor_guide/.github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/ct/AppName.sh) and [AppName-install.sh](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/blob/contributor_guide/.github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/install/AppName-install.sh) as templates when creating new scripts.

> - The call to `community-scripts/ProxmoxVE` should be adjusted to reflect the correct fork URL.

Reviewer 3: I like the idea to start a new script from a template.
Why not going all in and providing the CLI commands for this?

```
If you plan to implement a new application script, use our templates to get a kickstart:

$ NEW_APP_NAME="my-script"
$ cp ct/AppName.sh ct/${NEW_APP_NAME}.sh
$ cp ...
$ sed ... (some git remote -v magic to get the fork path)
```

This way, folks can just copy / paste the commands and get going.

Additionally: Considering the CONTIRBUTING.md is the entry doc, this is the first time it is mentioned that we operate on a fork.
Maybe it is better to move this chapter to a 

> Guide: Create your own App Script

which starts with

1. Fork this Repository
2. Kickstart your app with your template
3. ...

Reviewer 2: There has been a proposal by @quantumryuu  for this already, have a look here:  https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/tree/new_script_testing/.github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/dev-scripts
I will start testing, experementing with this when the hollidays are over. 

I also would love to have something simillar to [this](https://community-scripts.github.io/ProxmoxVE/json-editor) for Appname.sh and AppName-install.sh

Reviewer 4: About the AppName.sh/AppName-install.sh we could modify the scripts I proposed into asking things like "Author", "Source", "AppName" I guess.

> - The call to `community-scripts/ProxmoxVE` should be adjusted to reflect the correct fork URL.

Reviewer: Without more context it is unclear what the meaning of this sentence is (yes I know it is the call to build.func)

Reviewer 2: Its better explained int App.md. Maybe remove it here

Reviewer: Yes after going through the rest of the files that would make a lot of sense. It is not important here (yet)

---

# 🚀 The Application Script (ct/AppName.sh)

> - You can find all coding standards, as well as the structure for this files [here](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/blob/contributor_guide/.github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/ct/AppName.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can find all coding standards, as well as the structure for this file [here](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/blob/contributor_guide/.github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/ct/AppName.md).
```

> - These Scripts are responsible for container creation, setting the necessary variables and handles the update of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- These scripts are responsible for container creation, setting the necessary variables and handling the update of the application once installed.
```

---

# 🛠 The Installation Script (install/AppName-install.sh)

> - You can find all coding standards, as well as the structure for this files [here](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/blob/contributor_guide/.github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/install/AppName-install.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can find all coding standards, as well as the structure for this file [here](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/blob/contributor_guide/.github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/install/AppName-install.md).
```

> - These scripts are responsible for the installation of the application.

Reviewer 3: Maybe it make sense to extract this to a `structure.md`.
This document can explain
* the folder structure or this repository
* the structure of some key files (e.g. function libraries)
* the structure of an application (which files build an application) <- that's the two paragraphs here

Reviewer 2: I‘m against splitting it up even more. There should be one seperate file for every script type and one general one to not overcomplicated it.

---

## 🚀 Building Your Own Scripts

> Start with the [template script](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/blob/contributor_guide/.github/CONTRIBUTOR_GUIDE/install/AppName-install.sh)

Reviewer 3: Here i am a bit lost. Where do I start now to build my own script? Here or with the template of `ct/AppName.sh` and `install/AppName-install.sh`?

---

## 🤝 Contribution Process

> ### 1. Fork the Repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Fork the repository
```

Fork to your GitHub account

> ### 2. Clone Your Fork on your Pc 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Clone your fork on your local environment 
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourUserName/ForkName
```

> ### 3. Create a New Branch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Create a new branch
```

```bash
git switch -c your-feature-branch
```

> ### 4. Change Paths in build.func install.func and AppName.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Change paths in build.func install.func and AppName.sh
```

> You need to switch `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/main` to `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/[USER]/[REPOSITORY]/refs/head/[BRANCH]` to test your script in your repository. Before opening a Pull Request change all this back to point to the community-scripts Repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to develop from your own branch you need to change `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/main` to `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/[USER]/[REPOSITORY]/refs/head/[BRANCH]`. This change is only for testing. Before opening a Pull Request you should change this line change all this back to point to `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/main`.
```

> ### 4. Commit Changes (without build.func and install.func!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Commit changes (without build.func and install.func!)
```

> To be able to develop from your own branch you need to change `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/main` to `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/[USER]/[REPOSITORY]/refs/head/[BRANCH]`. This change is only for testing. Before opening a Pull Request you should change this line change all this back to point to `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/main`.

Reviewer 3: Overall this sounds like the typicall GitHub Flow style, which is reasonable.
Only Step 4 is special to this repository.

What do you think about this suggestion:
1. Making a small guide "Setting up your development environment" -> This is essentially Step 4
2. For the rest, refer to guides like https://github.blog/developer-skills/github/beginners-guide-to-github-creating-a-pull-request/

I think we will never do a better job than the Github docs in the regular content. I think we should keep the focus on the repo and create visibility on what is special here.

Reviewer 2: We are thinking about the contribution procces for the Pull Requests. It is not really practical how it is done at the moment, as you can not test the functionality of the script besides running code from an unknown repo or coppying the code to your one repo for testing. I would leave this as is atm.

```bash
git commit -m "Your commit message"
```

> ### 5. Push to Your Fork

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5. Push to your fork
```

```bash
git push origin your-feature-branch
```

### 6. Create a Pull Request

> Open a PR from your feature branch to the main repository branch. You may only include your **AppName.sh**, **AppName-install.sh** and **AppName.json** files in the pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a Pull Request from your feature branch to the main repository branch. You must only include your **$AppName.sh**, **$AppName-install.sh** and **$AppName.json** files in the pull request.
```

---

## 📚 Pages

> - [Function-Overview](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/wiki/Function_Overview)

Reviewer: This page points to nowhere.

Reviewer 2: This was put there by @MickLesk. Is there something planed (like documentation from build.func/install.func or something like that?) from your side ore should we remove it for now?

Reviewer 3: This raises a general question: Is the wiki in use or should it be used? The wiki itself is also a git repo. However, the pull request flow (incl. reviews and quality gate) is not lived there.

Having docs in markdown + wiki can lead to confusion, as people asks themselves "which one is now up to date?".

It may be helpful to commit to the one or the other.

> - [Function-Overview](https://github.com/community-scripts/ProxmoxVE/wiki/Function_Overview)

Reviewer 3: Whats the purpose of this chapter?
What goes in here? What does not go in here?

I think all relevant pages are linked above in the respective context. I am suggesting to drop this chapter.
